# bds-final-project
Prediction Engine for Restaurant Closures in NYC

Cole Smith

Undergraduate

## Running

### Python Version

This project was written in Python **3.7**. It is recommended
to set up the virtual environment with that version. If your system
defaults to Python 2, an interpreter can be specified with the `--python`
flag to `virtualenv`

### Set up `virtualenv`

To set up the environment run:

    virtualenv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    
### Running Clustering

The clustering output can be viewed in `doc/`. It can also be
generated by commenting out the code labelled as such in `main.py`

### Running Predictions

The predictions can be ran directly by executing: `python main.py`

For clarity, the prediction output for the Regression is the total
amount of restaurant closures (hard and soft, see below) for a given
month, given a number of factors. Each row is a **zip** at a month in time.

The output for the Classification is of **soft** (see below) closures.
This is done using the Restaurant Inspections Data Set. Each row is a
**restaurant** in current-day.

## Hard Closures vs Soft Closures

Since different datasets cannot reliably be joined, the closure information
is broken out into **Hard** and **Soft** closures.

### Hard Closures

Hard Closures are those in which a restaurant did not renew its DCA license
and thus cannot legally operate in New York City. These are assumed to not be
re-opened, since this closure was presumably voluntary.

### Soft Closures

Soft Closures are those in which the health inspection results warrants a complete
closure. This offer a richer set of supporting features since they originate from the
Restaurant Inspection Dataset. However, there are generally far fewer soft closures than
hard closures.

These closures are assumed to be involuntary, and restaurants may re-open upon a second
inspection.

### Merging Soft and Hard Closures

Since there is no given unique, universal identifier for a restaurant in these data sets,
the only information that can be used to merge tables is the **zip code** and the **date**
(Month and Year). 

However, since it is assumed that Soft and Hard Closures are drawn from
the same distribution (All restaurants must be inspected and must hold a DCA license),
the **master data set** also includes information from the Restaurant Inspection Data Set
aggregated to a monthly time-scale. 

The **total closures** are therefore the sum between soft and hard closures 
for a given month and zip code.

## Support

Contact Cole Smith ASAP at [css@nyu.ed](mailto:css@nyu.edu) or 727-417-7159.
